
### Where to get your `key` [](https://react.dev/learn/rendering-lists#where-to-get-your-key "Link for this heading")

Different sources of data provide different sources of keys:

- **Data from a database:** If your data is coming from a database, you can use the database keys/IDs, which are unique by nature.
- **Locally generated data:** If your data is generated and persisted locally (e.g. notes in a note-taking app), use an incrementing counter, [`crypto.randomUUID()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Crypto/randomUUID) or a package like [`uuid`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/uuid) when creating items.

### Rules of keys [](https://react.dev/learn/rendering-lists#rules-of-keys "Link for Rules of keys")

- **Keys must be unique among siblings.** However, it’s okay to use the same keys for JSX nodes in _different_ arrays.
- **Keys must not change** or that defeats their purpose! Don’t generate them while rendering.

### Why does React need keys? [](https://react.dev/learn/rendering-lists#why-does-react-need-keys "Link for Why does React need keys?")

Imagine that files on your desktop didn’t have names. Instead, you’d refer to them by their order — the first file, the second file, and so on. You could get used to it, but once you delete a file, it would get confusing. The second file would become the first file, the third file would be the second file, and so on.

File names in a folder and JSX keys in an array serve a similar purpose. They let us uniquely identify an item between its siblings. A well-chosen key provides more information than the position within the array. Even if the _position_ changes due to reordering, the `key` lets React identify the item throughout its lifetime.

### Pitfall

You might be tempted to use an item’s index in the array as its key. In fact, that’s what React will use if you don’t specify a `key` at all. But the order in which you render items will change over time if an item is inserted, deleted, or if the array gets reordered. Index as a key often leads to subtle and confusing bugs.

Similarly, do not generate keys on the fly, e.g. with `key={Math.random()}`. This will cause keys to never match up between renders, leading to all your components and DOM being recreated every time. Not only is this slow, but it will also lose any user input inside the list items. Instead, use a stable ID based on the data.

Note that your components won’t receive `key` as a prop. It’s only used as a hint by React itself. If your component needs an ID, you have to pass it as a separate prop: `<Profile key={id} userId={id} />`.